---
title: Why I Support Private Schools
author: bsoist
layout: post
permalink: /2005/10/30/school-libraries/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 53590612
categories:
  - Freedom
tags:
  - education
---
Laurie Taylor, a mother of two young teenage girls, complained to the board of education inFayetteville, Arkansas about three library books that contained explicit descriptions and depictions of sexual activity. The controversy that erupted shortly after is a great example of why I do not support public schools. Before you judge me as the kind of parent that chooses private school as a &#8216;shelter&#8217; for my children, please read on.Albert Mohler chimes in on the debate on his blog and echoes what I think is a common sentiment among Christian parents:  


> Predictably, national library associations and anti-censorship groups quickly jumped into the fray, charging Mrs. Taylor with launching a crusade to take the Arkansas public schools back to the dark ages.<cite><a href="http://www.crosswalk.com/news/weblogs/mohler/?adate=9/26/2005#1353203">source</a></cite></p>
I am offended at the tone of this post. I certainly do not want my children exposed to the content in question (without the proper parental involvement), but I am glad that someone speaks out in defense of freedom. That is what this controversy is about &#8211; **freedom**.This reminds me of another recent story involving Internet access at public libraries and another controversy some years ago about pledging the flag. Public schools are public insttitutions run by the government. Every year, the government takes more and more control of schools. As public institutions, schools have one drawback &#8211; freedom. My dad and I used to have this discussion. When he was in school, public schools were fine. By the time I was in school, students and parents were beginning to figure out that the government had no right to infringe on our freedoms.If my children attended the public school, would I really want the school to decide what my children should be reading (and not reading)? I know many of you are screaming &#8220;Yes!&#8221; You should think again. If you think someone (other than your child) should decide, I would agree with you, but do you want that someone to be the school (government)? Okay, maybe some of you do, and that is okay. You&#8217;ve made that decision. Many of us would prefer to reserve that role ourselves or enroll our children in private schools run by people we trust.In order to educate children, certain freedoms need to be curbed. Public schools, as an extension of the government have no right to curb freedoms. As a matter of fact, our government exists solely to protect our freedoms. It is a parent&#8217;s responsibility to direct, guide and discipline children so that learning can take place. Parent&#8217;s have the freedom to choose the correct course of action. Some parent&#8217;s choose private schools for this, some choose home-schooling, others choose public schools.Although it may be hard for some of us to believe, some parents do not mind the content involved in this controversy being available to their children. If my children were in the same school and some of the parents were in support of the content, how would this decision be solved in a public institution. The only solution is for one of us to choose another school.Please remember, this is not about *sheltering* my children. Anyone who knows me would tell you I don&#8217;t believe in sheltering children. I have reviewed the content involved in this dispute. Some of it is offensive, but some of it might be helpful to children given the proper involvement of parents. It is not about hiding this content from my children. This is about placing children in an evironment where learning can take place. I want my children in a school where students must do as they are told. I happen to believe that children will only learn in an environment of discipline. I want my children to learn respect for adults and obedience.It really boils down to this &#8211; I would fight to defend a student&#8217;s right to not salute the flag in a public school, but I want **my children** in a school that expels children for not saluting the flag!Does this make sense to anyone?
