---
title: Roe v. Wade
author: bsoist
layout: post
permalink: /2009/01/24/roe-v-wade/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 48484205
categories:
  - Faith
  - Family
  - Freedom
tags:
  - choice
  - abortion
---
Two days ago marked the anniversary of Roe v. Wade. I think it&#8217;s safe to say that no other Supreme Court ruling has spurred so many into active protest and support. Millions of people call themselves pro-choice and millions call themselves pro-life. Thousands march ever year in Washington in what they call the [March for Life][1] and thousands more march and act in support or protest of this ruling.

With the election of our new President, this ruling is again at the forefront of the minds of many. Barack Obama co-sponsored the Freedom of Choice Act and stated that he would sign it as his first act as President, which has millions of people furious and frustrated. I&#8217;ve read summaries of FOCA written by supporters and detractors, but I have not read the bill myself yet. As such, I cannot say that I support it. It seems to raise issues regarding states rights which complicate the matter in my mind. I will have to save that discussion for another day. 

But on the matter of a woman&#8217;s right to choose, I&#8217;ve made up my mind. I can&#8217;t pretend that this issue doesn&#8217;t leave me conflicted, but I believe in freedom. I think abortion is a terrible thing and I&#8217;d like to see fewer abortions this year than there were last, but I have never believed it is an issue for government to decide. Those who march against the right to choose, like to talk about the &#8220;slippery slope.&#8221; I don&#8217;t see any other way to look at anti-abortion laws as dangerously slippery. Reproductive rights should be protected at all costs. Any government big enough to tell you that you cannot have an abortion is big enough to tell you that you must! 

I know many would argue that the this right infringes on the rights of the unborn. I understand this argument, but I think this is similar to other judgement calls that need to be made in a free society. Stripping a woman&#8217;s right to choose places her freedom in the hands of government as well as others with a stake in the matter &#8211; parents, extended family, etc. This must be placed in balance against the rights of the unborn child. This is one of those issues that is a no-win situation. In many cases, a young woman is in grave danger when it becomes public that she is pregnant. 

I don&#8217;t have the time to spell out all of my thoughts on this controversial and complicated subject. This is a heated debate and I don&#8217;t want to inflame the emotions of those with whom I disagree. Along with my thoughts on FOCA, I will have to make time to write at length about this issue, but on this day close to the anniversary of Roe v. Wade I wanted to make two of my opinions clear.

One, I am pro-choice. I strongly support the right of a woman to decide what happens in the matter of her own pregnancy.

Two, I am pro-life. I strongly believe that abortion is always a bad decision. I would argue that even in the case of rape, incest, and the life of the mother &#8211; abortion is not a good solution. It is a terrible thing. 

So, how do I reconcile these disparate views? I remind myself that this discussion takes place on two levels &#8211; personal and societal. On a personal level, I believe abortion is wrong. I don&#8217;t want to see any woman have an abortion. I&#8217;d like to say that I have enough respect for others to allow them to make this choice without judgement from me, but on the issue I strongly disagree. On a societal level, the issue is different. It is not whether abortion is a bad thing, it is whether any society has the right to force a life-changing choice on an individual.

 [1]: http://www.marchforlife.org/
