---
title: The 2009 Oscars
author: bsoist
layout: post
permalink: /2009/01/25/oscars-2009/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 48714355
categories:
  - Fun
tags:
  - movies
  - oscars
---
Every year I make a list of Oscar nominated films and then do my best to see enough of them so that I have an opinion on as many of the categories as possible.

This year&#8217;s list is an interesting one. I&#8217;ve only seen nine of the fifty which is a lower number than usual, there are only eleven that were already on my list of films to see which is also low, and frankly, of the remaining thirty I only would normally care to see about half of them. This is the first year I can remember being this indifferent to the films nominated. 

I care most about the acting and writing categories so I like to see most of those movies. I am not very much interested in The Reader or The Wrestler, but I will probably see them if they win awards. My main priority this year will be to see all of Meryl Streep&#8217;s competition for best actress. I think she was simply fantastic in Doubt &#8211; one of the best performances I&#8217;ve ever seen. After that, I think I want to see the five actors whom the academy deem more deserving of the best actor award than Clint Eastwood. I&#8217;ve seen Gran Torino twice and I find it hard to believe he did not give one of the five best performances of the year.

### What I&#8217;ve Seen

Changeling  
The Dark Knight  
Doubt  
Encounters at the End of the World  
Iron Man  
Kung Fu Panda  
Presto  
This Way Up  
Wall-E

### On My List Before Nominations

Bolt  
The Class  
The Curious Case of Benjamin Button  
Frost/Nixon  
Man On Wire  
Rachel Getting Married  
Revolutionary Road  
Slumdog Millionaire  
The Visitor  
Waltz with Bashir  
Wanted

### Added To My List After Nominations

Australia  
The Betrayal  
The Conscience of Nhem En  
The Duchess  
The Final Inch  
Frozen River &#8211; writing, actress  
The Garden  
Happy-Go-Lucky &#8211; writing  
In Bruges &#8211; writing  
Milk  
Simple Pinki  
Trouble the Water  
Vicky Cristina Barcelona  
The Witness &#8211; From the Balcony of Room 306

### Movies I Will See If They Win Awards

The Reader  
The Wrestler
