---
title: Oscar Picks 2018
author: bsoist
layout: post
categories:
  - family
  - fun
---
{% include image.html url="https://www.army.mil/e2/c/images/2013/02/22/283274/size0.jpg" description="Oscar Statues" width="320px" %}

## Writing (Original Screenplay)
All solid nominees this year, but my favorite is [_Get Out_][get]. Like most horror movies, things fall apart a bit at the end, but it's a really original and thought provoking story.

## Writing (Adapted Screenplay)
I haven't read any of the original works here, but my favorite script from this batch is _The Disaster Artist_.

## Visual Effects
All of this years nominees featured outstanding visual effects, but one of them blew me away - _Blade Runner 2049_.

## Sound Mixing
I don't have a strong opinion on this one, but my vote would be for _Baby Driver_.

## Sound Editing
It amuses me somewhat that all the nominees are the same as for Sound Mixing. Perhaps because very few people really know what the difference is. :) I could see this going to eny of the films, but probably _Dunkirk_ or _Star Wars: The Last Jedi_.

## Short Film (Live Action)
All [very good this year][live], but _The Eleven O'Clock_ was my favorite.

## Short Film (Animated)
I usually have one ore more of these which I do not like. This year [was different][anime], but I do have one favorite - _Negative Space_.

## Production Design
_Blade Runner 2049_ or [_The Shape of Water_][water]

## Music (Original Song)
I think _Mystery Of Love_ is the favorite, and I think it's great, but I'd choose _Stand Up For Something_ from _Marshall_.

## Music (Original Score)
_Dunkirk_ or _Star Wars: The Last Jedi_

## Makeup and Hairstyling
Tough call this time but I'd choose - _Wonder_

## Foreign Language Film
I only saw one of these - _The Square_. I'd like to think that was not the best this year, so I'm picking the only other film that played near me - _A Fantastic Woman_.

## Film Editing
Several good choices this year, but I'm going with _I, Tonya_.

## Documentary (Short Subject)
This is much tougher than it usually is for me. I really enjoyed all of them. My favorite is _Knife Skills_. _Traffic Stop_ had a lot of potential. If it had explored some of the more difficult questions related to that traffic stop, it would have been my pick for sure. Instead, I think Heroin(e) will win. It explores what is a huge, and growing problem in the U.S, and shows a glimmer of hope dealing with it.

## Documentary (Feature)
I did not see _Faces Places_ but the others were all very good. All stories that needed to be told. All told well. I found myself confused throughout most of _Icarus_ and I'm still not sure how the film was made (who knew what and when did they know it, etc.) but if I had to pick one over the others, this is the one.

## Directing
I think this if one of those years where Best Picture and Directing will be split. I think the Directing award goes to Jordan Peele for [_Get Out_][get].

## Costume Design
I think _Phantom Thread_ is the least deserving, but I would not be surprised if any of these win. My pick is [_The Shape of Water_][water].

## Cinematography
I still don't know quite how this is measured, but I was very impressed with all of these films. Two of them stand out for me above the others, though - _Blade Runner 2049_ and _The Shape of Water_.

## Animated Feature Film
I think this one is a lock for _Loving Vincent_.

## Actress in a Supporting Role
I think Vicky Krieps stole the show in _Phantom Thread_ so I was surprised not to see a nomination for her. In the end, I think she would not have beaten Allison Janney or my pick - [Laurie Metcalf][lady].

## Actor in a Supporting Role
Though one performance stands out far and away above the others for me, I love seeing five spectacular actors nominated this year. All five of these men are consistently outstanding. [Sam Rockwell][3b] turned in the performance of a lifetime and I would be shocked if he doesn't win.

## Actress in a Leading Role
Once again, this is the toughest category for me. McDormand and Steep are oustanding and turned in excellent performances this year, but I think the other three were better. I'd give [Sally Hawkins][water] a very slight edge over Margot Robbie and [Saoirse Ronan][lady] just slightly behind her. I'd be thrilled to see any of those three win it.

## Actor in a Leading Role
This might be a rogue pick (I'm not sure, I try not to read too much about who is the favorite, etc.) but I'm going with Denzel Washington. I almost didn't see this film because he is not one of my favorie actors, but he really, really impressed me with this performance.

## Best Picture
The best I can do is divide these films into two batches:

### Should Win
[_Call Me By Your Name_][call]
[_Get Out_][get]
[_Lady Bird_][lady]
[_The Shape of Water_][water]

### Should Not Win
I liked three of these movies, but don't think any of them should win.

[_Dunkirk_][dk]
[_Darkest Hour_][dh]
[_Phantom Thread_][pt]
[_The Post_][post]
[_Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri_][3b]

My original pick was [_The Shape of Water_][water] but [_Get Out_][get] and [Lady Bird][lady] really started to grow on me.

I think Best Picture and Directing will be split between [_Get Out_][get] and [Lady Bird][lady]. I think [_Lady Bird_][lady] takes Best Picture.

[call]: {% post_url 2018-02-05-cinema-is-a-mirror %}
[dh]: {% post_url 2018-02-07-mobilizing-the-english-language %}
[dk]: {% post_url 2018-02-06-all-we-did-is-survive %}
[get]: {% post_url 2018-02-11-different-how %}
[lady]: {% post_url 2018-01-06-is-that-your-given-name %}
[pt]: {% post_url 2018-02-27-phantom-thread %}
[post]: {% post_url 2018-01-30-news-is-the-first-rough-draft-of-history %}
[water]: {% post_url 2018-02-08-if-we-do-nothing %}
[3b]: {% post_url 2018-02-10-all-this-anger-man %}
[anime]: {% post_url 2018-02-12-animated-shorts %}
[live]: {% post_url 2018-02-15-live-action-shorts %}
