---
title: My Oscar Picks 2010
author: bsoist
layout: post
permalink: /2010/03/07/my-oscar-picks-2010/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 73524583
categories:
  - Fun
---
NOTE: ** I wanted to post this before the show so all the links point to the same place right now. I&#8217;ll edit them later.

I usually like to see all the films nominated in the popular categories but this year I missed a few key films. I&#8217;ll make note of those when I think it matters. 

## Best Actor {#best_actor}

The clear winner among the performance I saw is Jeff Bridges for his portrayal of a washed up country singer who is down on his luck and struggling with his addiction to alcohol in [*Crazy Heart*][1]. Bridges is an exceptional actor and this performance is brilliant.

I saw the other two films &#8211; [*The Hurt Locker*][1] and [*Up In the Air*][1] &#8211; twice and I would give second place to George Clooney. The second time I saw this film I found myself surprised that I&#8217;d not remembered his performance. It was a solid performance.

Unfortunately, I haven&#8217;t seen two of the performances &#8211; [Morgan Freeman][1] and [Colin Firth][1]. I understand both are excellent actors and I&#8217;m guessing both were better than Clooney and Renner. 

## Best Supporting Actor {#best_supporting_actor}

I did not see [*The Lovely Bones*][1] or [*Invictus*][1] and I saw [*Inglorious Basterds*][1] twice. 

I was thoroughly impressed with Harrelson&#8217;s performance in [*The Messenger*][1]. In any other year, he might be the clear winner, but I think the Oscar should definitely go to Christoph Waltz for his performance in [*Inglorious Basterds*][1]. His was one of the finest performances I remember seeing in any film. 

Plummer&#8217;s performance was excellent in [*The Last Station*][1] was also excellent but I have to make Harrelson my second pick.

## Best Actress {#best_actress}

I&#8217;ve seen all of these films and I&#8217;m a fan of all these actresses, but I&#8217;m not excited about this category this year. Last year, I thought all five nominees were brilliant and I had no idea who would take the Oscar. This year I think there is a clear winner, but I&#8217;m still not that excited about it &#8211; even though it&#8217;s an actress I really love.

[*Julie & Julia*][1] was not nearly as good as expected. Streep is an excellent actress (and my choice for this Oscar last year) and I love Amy Adams but the people they were portraying were not nearly as lovable as the actresses themselves. I guess that colors my opinion of the movie and the performances. 

[*Precious*][1] was a great film and Sidibe&#8217;s performance was solid &#8211; especially for a first performance &#8211; but not worthy of the Oscar, in my opinion.

Mirren was fantastic in [*The Last Station*][1] and I enjoyed the film, but the other two performances were better in my opinion.

I would give second place to Carey Mulligan for her performance in [An_Educatoin][1]. This is the first time I&#8217;ve seen her and I was very impressed. I&#8217;ve read that she is the favorite to win, but I think the Oscar belongs to Sandra Bullock.

[*The Blind Side*][1] is the kind of film I do not normally appreciate and this is no exception. I have to say I enjoyed the film more then I expected but it was not an excellent film. Bullock&#8217;s performance, on the other hand, was fantastic. My opinion might certainly be skewed by my undying love for Sandra Bullock, but I&#8217;d like to think I&#8217;m being objective. Two days before I saw this film, I&#8217;d seen her in another film where she plays a completely different role and the difference in characters was remarkable. She really did an excellent job in this film. Really? I&#8217;m not just sayin&#8217; that because I like her.

## Best Supporting Actress {#best_supporting_actress}

I&#8217;m disappointed I did not get to see [*Nine*][1]. I&#8217;ve read that it was not a great film but the last few films in which I&#8217;ve seen her, Cruz has been fantastic.

I saw [*Up In the Air*][1] before the nominations were announced because I had read that it was going to be a favorite for Best Picture. I was very impressed with the film and with many of the performances. As I&#8217;ve already written, I wasn&#8217;t blown away by Clooney but his performance was good &#8211; as were the other performances in the film. 

The performance that stood out for me was Anna Kendrick&#8217;s. I wasn&#8217;t sure if I&#8217;d just fallen for her character or not, but I loved her in the film.

When the nominations were announced I was very pleased she was nominated and I was a little confused about Farmiga&#8217;s nomination. I had not been nearly as impressed with her. When I saw the film a second time, though, it made more sense. It also confirmed my opinion of Kendrick. Her performance was excellent (and now I&#8217;m sure I&#8217;ve fallen for the character).

Then I saw [*Precious*][1] and a once in a lifetime performance by Mo&#8217;Nique. She was great from start to finish but her monologue late in the film was brilliant.

Just the other day I went to see [*Crazy Heart*][1] since I&#8217;d heard Bridges was great. I&#8217;m glad I did because Bridges is the clear winner in his category, but I don&#8217;t think Gyllenhaal wins this category. Her performance was solid and probably worthy of the nomination, but I don&#8217;t expect her to win.

I&#8217;d like to see Kendrick beat Mo&#8217;Nique, but I&#8217;d have to call this one a toss up.

## Best Animated Feature {#best_animated_feature}

I&#8217;ve only seen two of these films but I&#8217;m certain [*Up*][1] wins this category. Before I learned that the best picture category was being expanded to ten films, I still felt as though [*Up*][1] was worth of best picture. It was that good. I assumed it wouldn&#8217;t be nominated and was pleased to learn when the field would be expanded to ten because I thought it might get a nomination. Turns out I was right but I still don&#8217;t expect it to win &#8211; because this category exists.

Anyway, I&#8217;m getting ahead of myself here.

[*Up*][1] clearly wins this and I have to give second to the only other film I saw &#8211; [*Coraline*][1], which I think was a fantastic film too.

## Art Direction ## {#art_direction_}

Only seen one of these films &#8211; [*Avatar*][1] &#8211; so I am going to guess.

[*The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus*][1] wins, [*Nine*][1] maybe.

## Cinematograpy {#cinematograpy}

I did not see [*Harry Potter*][1] (I&#8217;m a big fan of the Potter books and films, I just missed this one) and I did not see [*The White Ribbon*][1].

I only saw [*Avatar*][1] once. I saw the other two &#8211; [*The Hurt Locker*][1] and [*Inglorious Basterds*][1] &#8211; twice.

I think [*Inglorious Basterds*][1] is the clear winner but any of the others could certainly win. So, I&#8217;ll have to go on my son&#8217;s recommendation on this one. He came home from [*Harry Potter*][1] and told me that it was one of the best &#8220;looking&#8221; movies he had ever seen. If you know [my son][2], you understand that means a lot. 

So, I&#8217;ll go with [*Harry Potter*][1] as my second choice. My son agrees, btw.

## Costume Design {#costume_design}

We received [*Bright Star*][1] from [NetFlix][1] about two weeks ago but we haven&#8217;t watched it yet. Haven&#8217;t seen any of these films so I&#8217;ll guess again.

[*Nine*][1] wins, [*Bright Star*][1] in second.

## Directing {#directing}

I&#8217;ve seen [*Avatar*][1] and [*Precious*][precous] once; [*Up In the Air*][1], [*The Hurt Locker*][1], and [*Inglorious Basterds*][1] twice.

I think this is an easy call really &#8211; Kathryn Bigelow for [*The Hurt Locker*][1]. Second place is a tougher call for me but I&#8217;d give it to Jason Reitman for [*Up In the Air*][1]. 

## Documentary Feature {#documentary_feature}

I&#8217;ve only seen two of these and I think it&#8217;s toss up who wins. I&#8217;ll go with [*The Cove*][1] to win and [*Food, Inc.*][1] in second. They are both great documentaries. If you haven&#8217;t seen them, you should.

## Documentary Short {#documentary_short}

Haven&#8217;t seen any of these and I&#8217;m not going to guess on this one.

## Film Editing {#film_editing}

I&#8217;ve seen [*Avatar*][1] and [*Precious*][precous] once; [*District 9*][1], [*The Hurt Locker*][1], and [*Inglorious Basterds*][1] twice.

I&#8217;m going to pick [*The Hurt Locker*][1] to win and [*Inglorious Basterds*][1] second.

## Foreign Film {#foreign_film}

Also not going to guess.

## Makeup {#makeup}

[*Star Trek*][1]wins and my second pick is [*Il Divo*][1].

## Score ## {#score_}

[*Avatar*][1] wins and [*Up*][1] is my second pick.

## Song {#song}

*The Weary Kind* from [*Crazy Heart*][1] and my second pick is *Almost There* from [*The Pricess and the Frog*][1].

## Best Animated Short ## {#best_animated_short_}

This is a tough one for me. I saw them all and they were all worthy of an award. I&#8217;m going to guess that [*A Matter of Loaf and Death*][1] will win but my favorite was [*Logorama*][1].

## Best Live Action Short {#best_live_action_short}

Also a tough one for me. I wasn&#8217;t a huge fan of [*The Door*][1] but I liked the others. My favorite was [*The New Tenants*][1] but I&#8217;ll make it my second pick. I think the winner will be [*Instead of Abracadabra*][1]

## Sound Editing {#sound_editing}

I&#8217;ve seen all these films and I think this is another tough call. [*Up*][1] and [*Avatar*][1] are possibilities since they are both animated (essentially). [*Inglorious Basterds*][1] would also not surprise me, but I think the winner will be [*The Hurt Locker*][1] and my second pick is [*Star Trek*][1].

## Sound Mixing {#sound_mixing}

I&#8217;ve seen all these and I can&#8217;t believe [*Transformers*][1] was nominated. That movie was one of the loudest experiences of my entire life. It sounded to me as though everything was at the same level. Perhaps it was just a problem at that theater. I hated the movie too, btw.

I think [*Inglorious Basterds*][1] will, and should, win. [*Star Trek*][1] is my second pick.

## Visual Effects {#visual_effects}

I saw [*District 9*][1] twice and the others once. [*Avatar*][1] will win, but I&#8217;d prefer either of the others win instead. 

## Adapted Screenplay {#adapted_screenplay}

Along with [*District 9*][1], I saw [*Up In the Air*][1] twice. I saw the others once. [*Up In the Air*][1] will win. Tough call for second but I&#8217;ll have to go with [*In the Loop*][1].

## Original Screenplay {#original_screenplay}

I&#8217;ve seen two of these only once and the others twice. I am not going to be disappointed no matter who wins but I would choose [*A Serious Man*][1] or [*Inglorious Basterds*][1].

## Best Picture {#best_picture}

Like I mentioned earlier, I am glad this category was expanded to ten films because I think [*Up*][1] deserves a nomination. It is worthy of the win but I don&#8217;t expect it to win.

I have seen all of these films &#8211; half of these movies twice &#8211; and I&#8217;d call all of them excellent films. I don&#8217;t think [*Avatar*][1] or [*The Blind Side*][1] are in the same category as the others, but they are still excellent films. 

I saw [*Up*][1] first and I thought it was worthy of an Oscar from day one. The next film I saw was [*The Hurt Locker*][1] and was sure it would win for best picture. As I saw each of the next films, most of them made me wonder a bit but I stick by my original pick. My second choice is [*Up In the Air*][1].

 [1]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002E2M5IC?tag=weifyoasme-2
 [2]: http://soysauce357.wordpress.com/
